all right so I know a lot of you guys
been asked me to cover cheaper gaming
laptops I hear you it's just hard to
find good cheap devices that's just the
nature of the market right companies try
to sell you some expensive stuff that
you don't really need because they want
that money now this is something
different this is the Dell g5 SE and
this is a device that I think is going
to be the cheapest high performance
gaming laptop for the whole year I think
this is gonna be the king 4 value now in
order to achieve this price point of
eight hundred and seventy dollars I
think it's eight hundred seven eight
hundred seventy nine dollars I think in
order to hit this price point they had
to do two things one good thing one
really good thing and one less good
thing the good thing is that it's
running an AMD CPU of course because
that's the best way to get value and
also an AMD GPU this is actually the
world's first gaming laptop that's
running both the combination now it's
not just the fact that it's running them
individually right AMD CPUs are great
AMD's new GPUs are also great but the
combination of the two allows them to do
something pretty interesting something
called smart shift we'll get into that
but that is what makes the performance
on this thing so good the second thing
that they've done which is not as good
is that they've the build the build on
this machine is not my favorite it's not
just like the the aesthetic I don't love
the aesthetic but it's also the the
material choices itself we'll get into
it alright let's talk about performance
first because that's the most important
thing my unit is running the 8 core 4800
H from AMD a very capable processor it's
good for games it's great for any kind
of application that can make use of lots
of cores this thing pushes out really
good numbers for a CPU the base model
runs the 4600 H it's a similar type of
architecture it was the same
architecture but it's got six cores
instead of eight that six core chip is
gonna be just as good as an eight core
for the vast majority of games but they
both share the same GPU this and the
base model have the 5600 M from AMD a
very capable graphics chip and there's
actually the first laptop of reviewed
with that chip inside it and it
really surprised me as to how good it is
it's similar to an art 626 Emacs Q
slightly better in many cases but not as
good as let's say at 2070 max Q the
numbers we're seeing here are incredibly
good for an 872 dollar laptop and
remember it's Dell this is a company
that puts their stuff on sale really
often like summer sales back-to-school
stuff Black Friday stuff holiday stuff I
wouldn't be surprised we can pick up the
base model for like 700 bucks sometime
in the fall the thermal performance is
pretty good it hits like 84 85 degrees
at peak so it's reasonably well managed
but you do need to have the fans cranked
to hit that there's like a G button
which enables game shift and it's just
faster fans for the system you get the
best possible performance when that's
enabled but the fans are relatively loud
now this system because it's running an
AMD CPU and an AMD GPU it uses this tech
from AMD called smart shift it's
something that is unique to a mean you
can only use this stuff when you're
running the combo and it basically
redistributes power to whatever you're
doing so if you're playing a game and
it's more GPU dependent it'll pump more
wattage to the GPU to give you the best
possible performance in that particular
scenario but let's say you're doing
video editing a more CPU dependent thing
it'll pump more wattage to the CPU it's
basically free performance it's not huge
I'd estimate it to be like five ten
percent based on what AMD is said but it
is a bonus to the system so that's the
good stuff
performance is great then not so good
stuff build let's talk about that this
is a laptop that looks cheap I mean it
is cheap it's not a super expensive
gaming laptop but there's something
about the design language and the color
choices and the material choices that
they have on this thing that just
exaggerated the cheapness of it now I'm
someone that cares about aesthetics on
my tech right not everyone does and if
you don't then you can skip this part of
it but the even the color let's just
start there the color of this thing is
this like light gray material that looks
like at one point was like a nice shiny
material but just got scuffed so badly
it became this dull flat gray but at the
same time it still has that rainbow
holographic Dell logo at the front the
bottom is also this weirdly like
two-toned
half Matt half super glossy plastic also
in gray it just looks like us really old
like DVD by or something from the 90s it
just doesn't look right to me
now again this is coming from someone
who cares about aesthetics not everyone
does but there is one thing I would say
but the build that would probably
concern everyone it's the hinge of the
screen it's a design where the hinge is
closer to the center of the laptop so
every time you open and close the
display it kind of torques the screen
and torques the hinge in a weird way I
don't like seeing it just because older
devices have had issues not dell devices
but i've seen older devices from lenovo
where the hands just busted from
repeated opening and closing so i'm just
pointing it out there now i do think
that the interior of this device is well
done it's like a simple plain black and
you have a pretty solid screen so my
units running the upgraded 144 hertz
panel it's fast it's pretty bright
reasonably color accurate I like it
especially for the price now the base
model has a 60 Hertz screen right now
which isn't great for gaming but if I'm
not mistaken that panel supposed to be
upgraded to a 120 Hertz panel sometime
in the summer without changing that
starting price so if you're someone
who's gonna pick it up right now I would
either pick up this display like the
upgraded versions or hold off a little
bit to wait for that 120 Hertz supply to
come into place because you just don't
want to be paying for a gaming laptop of
this caliber with a 60 Hertz screen just
doesn't make sense
alright let's talk about the keyboard
it's a pretty good keyboard I like it
but it's a little cramped because of the
number pad there are people that always
want number pads and their devices I see
it all the time or comments I personally
never use these things but if you want
one this system has one but for the
people that don't use the number pads
and they're just using the keyboard it
does feel a little bit tight not the
layout like the layout is spacious
enough it's just on the left side where
your hand is for the WASD Keys there's
very little space left on this device
for you to place your wrist on while
you're playing games it's just this
little tiny island of wrist rest the
keys themselves are fine like it's like
a very comfortable typing experience the
keystroke is pretty responsive could be
a little bit faster but I think most
people will enjoy this keyboard the
touch pad is is nothing I can complain
about its plastic but it does the job
and it's got Windows precision drivers
which is always a win the port selection
is quite good and this device has got an
Ethernet jack it's got three display
outputs so it's got an HDMI and we need
display and a display port that comes
out of use BC it also has three USB a's
and an SD card slot that is stacked it's
a pretty solid port selection it does
not support thumb ball three though it's
not a huge deal I feel like in this day
and age Thunderbolt 3 has become less
valuable especially on a gaming device
like this now inside you have access to
your two RAM slots your a Wi-Fi card
it's a killer card so you can replace
that if you would like it's got a 68
water.i battery I think this is the
bigger battery this got me five and a
half hours of battery life which is
respectable right considering everything
that's going on in here
it's got two nvme drives and you can
also see the thermal system with the
three heat pipes and then on the left
and right you have the speakers they
don't sound great they sound exactly how
you would expect an eight hundred and
seventy dollar gaming laptop to sound
like but that is the Dell g5 se a very
powerful device for the money I think
this is going to be a very difficult
difficult device for other competitors
to beat in terms of that price to
performance ratio it's just really good
when you combine the AMD CPU and GPU
together but it's got some quirks right
for one I don't love the design to the
hinge and if you do pick up one of the
base model which is actually pretty good
I would wait a little bit until you can
get the better screens like that and
once when you heard screens okay oh
because I'm sure this video thumbs we
liked it subs if you'd love to see you
guys next time
[Music]